Move from Sinks to Inputs and Outputs (#65)
AMWA-TV/nmos-sink-metadata-processing: docs/Data Model.md

# Data Model: Identifier Mapping

> [IS-04][IS-04] uses a logical data model which is extended in this specification with the addition of the Inputs and Outputs resources.

Reviewer: I would take this sentence out. Inputs and Outputs are data models we are adding to IS-11. They do not exist in IS-04. We are not extending the IS-04 model.
What we could say is that IS-11 builds upon existing data models in IS-04 and adds two additional resources in the form of Inputs and Outputs.

Author: ```suggestion
```

![Extended IS-04 Model Diagram](../docs/images/is-11-data-model.png)

> The IS-04 heirarchy is preserved with the exception of the addition of Sender can identify an association with 0 or more Input resources and Receiver can identify an association with 0 or more Output resources.

Reviewer 2: hierarchy

Author: ```suggestion
The IS-04 hierarchy is preserved with the exception of the addition of Sender can identify an association with 0 or more Input resources and Receiver can identify an association with 0 or more Output resources.
```

> The IS-04 hierarchy is preserved with the exception of the addition of Sender can identify an association with 0 or more Input resources and Receiver can identify an association with 0 or more Output resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IS-04 hierarchy is preserved. Additionally, Senders can be associated with 0 or more Input resources and Receiver can be associated with 0 or more Output resources.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: hierarchy

## Input Representation

A new Input is created in the following circumstance:

> - At the presence of an IS-11 compatible Sender

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this mean ... this first lie is different from the Receiver side ...

Author: ```suggestion
- At the presence of a physical source or another producing unit
```
What about this?

Reviewer: Are you trying to say that an IS-11 sender must have at the very least an associated Input?

Author: Yes, it was in my head at that moment. If we create Inputs without EDID for SDI sources, what is the use case for Sender without Inputs? The same can be asked about Receiver without Outputs.

Author: I plan to manually commit changes to Identity Hierarchy section if we agree Sender/Receiver<-->Input/Output relationship is `1..*`.

Regarding Input/Output Representation sections, the only obvious circumstance to create them for me is the presence of a physical source/sink device which reads/provides EDID. I guess, such language leaves any other appropriate cases open for vendors.

Reviewer 2: A Sender is associated to 1..* Inputs, an Input is associated to 1..* Senders. Idem for Receivers and Outputs. I'm ok with that.

Author: I made a commit with bidirectional `1..*` relationship and updated Representation. Marked as resolved.

> Persistent identity helps to ensure that users’ expectations meet with reality. For example, if a piece of equipment is switched off and back on, the user would expect it to return with ... the identifiers used by the Node remain the same.

### Input ID

Owned by:

> - Sender ID

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I agree with this ... An input shall be associated to a device.

Author: You're right. It says IDs own other IDs which confused me.
```suggestion
- Device ID
```

SHOULD change if:

- Sender ID changes
- A different physical interface (such as an HDMI output) is mapped to originate the essence
- A different physical source is connect to the same interface (using the manufacturer information, serial number, or unique identifier)

SHOULD NOT change if:

- A Sender is re-configured, adding or removing some Inputs, but keeping this one

It is suggested that Input IDs be generated using the combination of:

- The parent Sender ID
- A connection identifier such as a channel name, index or similar

### Output ID

Owned by:

> - Receiver ID

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I agree with this ... An output shall be associated to a device.

Author: ```suggestion
- Device ID
```

Reviewer: Well I agree with the change in that the Output is Owned by the whole device but it's association may be to a single receiver or multiple receivers.
